I just wanna talk about what kinds of
things make sense to store in LevelDB, and
what kinds of things don't.
And we'll whip up a fun demo.
I think we'll do image hosting service or
something,
cuz that's a good example to kinda
demonstrate the basic pattern of having
Blob Storage separate from your local DB
that can do things like storing metadata.
So if you have things like images or
media files, or big arrays,
or whatever, things that
are kind of static in character,
it's usually best not to
put those in LevelDB.
It's good to stick them in another
kind of secondary storage.
They might be backed by the same things,
like in the browser.
Of course,
all you have to work with this IndexedDB.
But there's wrappers.
There's a package called
idb-content-addressable-blob-store, for
example, that you can use.
Or if you're node,
you can use this package,
whichever they like called
content-addressable-blob-store.
Which, you just write data to it,
you call createReadStream, or
createReadStream function.
You pump a bunch of data into it,
which is gonna live on the file system.
And it gives you back a hash of
the content, and you can use that hash to,
To store a reference to that
document in your LevelDB data,
which is gonna be a lot smaller.
There's also some other fun blobstore
modules like torrent-blob-store.
So you can put files onto BitTorrent
with a really tiny node package.
That's all pure JavaScript that
speaks the BitTorrent protocol.
And it's pretty good.
I recommend if you wanna
swap out any of the content.
I'm gonna be using
a content-addressable-blob-store for
the next demo.
But if you want to have a project, you
can swap that out with the torrent store,
and then it will live on BitTorrent.
There's also packages like hypercore,
which is part of the DOT project, and
hypercore is actually
also a log structure.
It has kind of a basic cap
architecture behind the scenes.
We'll look maybe a little
more at that later.
But okay, so let's make another demo.
I'll call this blob.
Maybe we'll write a little
commandline program to populate
a database with some data.
And then maybe we'll write a little server
that will just display some of this data.
Okay, so the first thing that we can
do is make a little program that
can add records to our database.
So we could also do something with
batching up secondary indexes and
stuff, but
I'm just gonna skip that kind of features.
This is gonna be pretty simple.
And we'll also use the
package-content-addressable-blob-store to
put the data in there.
So call this one addimg.js,
and it'll take an image file as input,
maybe on standard in, or maybe on, yeah,
standard in is good place to put that.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna load this package-content
addressable-blob-store.
We're also gonna load LevelDB,
like normal.
And we're gonna instantiate
our call it img.db, whatever.
And valueEncoding: json.
Okay, so If we look at the readme for
content-addressable-blob-store, you
can see that
all that you need to do is you require it,
and then you give it a place to live.
So it's a similar kind of
API to LevelDB itself.
Then you can call
a createWriteStream method,
and you get a key that you can use.
So what we're gonna do,
I'll just test out.
First, we need to give it,
call it img.blob.
So there's gonna be img.db, that's gonna
be our LevelDB storage in this directory.
And img.blob, that's gonna be
the location of our image data.
Okay, so we're gonna have an image
coming in on process.stdin.
We can pipe it to
a blob.store.createWriteStream.
I believe you can give it a callback, and
we've gotta save that to variable.
So we can either listen for
a finished event, which is
a property on all writable streams, or
we can I think passing a callback here.
So I'll try it with a callback.
And so if there's an error,
we wanna know about it.
Otherwise, we wanna, for now,
I'll just print out the key.
So we can make sure that this part works,
before we add in the part
that writes to LevelDB.
So I could do console.log.w.key.
Okay, and then not an image, but I'll just
add in this file, just to make sure, yeah.
And then I think whatever
kinda SHA that is, 256 maybe.
Yeah, so this is just SHA-256
of that file is the address.
So we're gonna put this
hash into our database.
And then if we provide the hash as
input to a createReadStream function,
we can get that data back out again.
Although, now we've got
some garbage in there.
Cuz we're gonna wanna
store images in here,
not just like any old file, gonna delete
those, and we can get back to our program.
So what we wanna do is every
time we have a new image,
we're gonna wanna call db.put
with a key and a value.
So our key is gonna be something there,
and
our value, there's an error.
We wanna know about it.
Well, I have a thing called that.
And we can use the w.key, which is
a hex string to reference the data.
And maybe we wanna store some other
kinds of documents, like the timestamp.
So date that now is a handy thing to do,
to put that in a value.
If you want some ideas for
how you might extend this example,
we could do the same thing that
we did in the user post example,
where we have a secondary index for
the timestamps or whatever.
Whatever, I think this is fine.
Okay, so now we've got our db.put, so
I ought to be able to add a file
from my Photos directory.
I think I've got a photo of my cat,
put it in there.
So now there should be some data
in our database to play with.
So if we look in the blob directory,
we can see that this is a similar trick
to what get uses if you've ever
poked around in the bowels of .git.
I think in Objects, right?
So this is just a way of taking
the first two digits in hexadecimal.
And using that to prefix,
because of how file systems work,
it's actually really slow to have
way too many files in a directory.
So this is a way of expanding
the branch size to be 256 or something.
All right, anyways, so
we can take our img.js script,
and we can modify it to
maybe just print out all of
the hashes from our database now,
so list-files.js.
Okay, so all of this can be the same.
It's just our setup.
But now we need to do
store.createReadStream with that hash,
which we can get on as
a commandline argument.
Sorry, that would be the reader function.
What we wanna do is db.createReadStream,
and then we can consume that stream,
which is an object stream.
So do to.obj.
And then we're gonna get every record
in the database, and just print it.
So here we see the key that we
put in with the hex string.
And the timestamp could format
it more pretty if we wanna,
but we don't have to do that.
Well, actually,
I'm gonna just take the key and slice it.
Get a slice off the first bit, so
that we just see the hex part.
Now, you can just be the same.
All right, there we go.
So we've got this hex string.
Now, it'd be pretty nice if we could
also print out the contents for this.
So there's a method in
content-addressable-blob-store
called createReadStream we can use for
that.
So I'll say read file.js.
Now we can do store.createReadStream.
We don't actually have to do any
LevelDB in this particular file,
because we can just take the hash.
Yeah, not require process.argv, and
just type that to standard out.
So if we run that program with this hash,
and then write it to a file,
if I open that file, there we go.
It's a cat.
That's pretty cool.
So let's turn this into a little
web service, that'll be fun.
Okay, so we can take one of our
existing files, maybe our list files,
because our server's also gonna have
to have a list of the files and
call the server.js.
We need to load the HTTP module,
in addition to all of
this other stuff,
aAnd we can do http.createserver.
We get a request and response.
And then inside of our server,
after we listen on a port,
we can maybe, on the main page,
we'll just have a really bare
bones HTML output for this.
This data, otherwise,
we can just say not found.
We won't even set the correct header.
I don't care that much.
Okay, so can we have our createReadStream,
instead of two I can use through.
And we're gonna quickly pipe
that out to the response.
>> Yeah, but that's [INAUDIBLE].
>> Which?
There's a two at the end of there.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, it's supposed to be like that.
>> Okay.
>> All right, so now,
instead of doing console.log,
what we need to do is we can call
our next function with a little bit
of HTML that we wanna send for
every piece.
So you can use template strings,
and node is a nice way to do that.
So we can have multiline output.
And then what we're gonna do is
we're gonna use the same values.
But I guess we can have like an h1 tag,
I don't know, I like h1 tags.
We can have the hash,
that'll be the heading.
And then we can have an img tag
that will refer to another URL that we
can specify that will load the data.
So image/, and then the hash,
which is gonna be this bit.
Actually, we're already doing the hash
of the content in the image src.
So why don't I put
the timestamp in the h1?
Beautifully formatted as a number [LAUGH].
All right, so
that looks like in order to work.
We're gonna just be able to run this.
It's gonna show us a broken image,
because we haven't implemented
the image right yet.
But we can do that really quick,
and then it'd be a fun little demo.
So if everything's working, you should
be able to go to localhost 5000.
And indeed, there is a timestamp and
a broken image.
So let's go ahead and implement that
route that image are to live on.
And then we'll have a nifty little example
using LevelDB in a blob storage module.
So I'm just gonna reuse regex really fast
to test if the URL starts with image.
So it's gonna be /image/ test(req.url).
If you wanna use a router,
I like to use the package called routes.
A lot more in this stuff tomorrow,
but for the time being.
So if we have a request for
image, we need to call store.
createReadStream with that hash.
So we need to cut off the first
part to get the hash,
which we can do with another regex.
So reg.url.replace,
whatever that is with nothing.
And then createReadStream for hash, and
just pipe it into the response
after we set a content type header.
I'll just always say it's a JPEG,
even though it's probably
not always gonna be one.
Once we do that, there we go.
It's really big, but
that's a picture of a cat.
And can add more images
using the image script, or
we could implement a put request,
or whatever.
But I think you get the basic idea of how
you can string some stuff together with
LevelDB, and
different kinds of binary storage modules.